We are scaling up our Trusted Access for Cyber (TAC) program to thousands of verified individual defenders and hundreds of teams responsible for defending critical software. For years, we’ve been building a cyber defense program on the principles of democratized access, iterative deployment, and ecosystem resilience. In preparation for increasingly more capable models from OpenAI over the next few months, we are fine-tuning our models specifically to enable defensive cybersecurity use cases, starting today with a variant of GPT‑5.4 trained to be cyber-permissive: GPT‑5.4‑Cyber. In this post, we share how we expect our approach of scaling cyber defense in lockstep with increasing model capabilities to guide the testing and deployment of future releases.

The progressive use of AI accelerates defenders – those responsible for keeping systems, data, and users safe – enabling them to find and fix problems faster in the digital infrastructure everyone relies on. Similarly, AI is being used⁠ by attackers looking to cause harm. We've been preparing for this. Since 2023, we've supported defenders through our Cybersecurity Grant Program⁠ and strengthened safeguards through our Preparedness Framework⁠. The same year, we started evaluating our models' cyber capabilities, and in 2025, we began including cyber-specific safeguards⁠(opens in a new window) in our model deployments⁠. Earlier this year, we furthered our support for defenders with the launch of Codex Security⁠ to identify and fix vulnerabilities at scale. Our approach to this continuous advancement of capabilities is guided by three principles:

**Our strategy for cybersecurity resilience and defensive acceleration**

For years, our cybersecurity strategy has been to invest in research, prevent misuse, and accelerate defenders. As model capabilities have advanced, we have expanded our programs toward these goals, which are grounded in the following convictions:

We want to empower defenders by giving broad access to frontier capabilities, including models which have been tailor-made for cybersecurity. In February, we introduced Trusted Access for Cyber⁠ (TAC) with both automated identity verification for individuals in order to reduce the friction of safeguards on cybersecurity-related tasks and partner with a limited set of organizations for more cyber-permissive models.

Today we’re expanding this program by introducing additional tiers of access for users willing to work with OpenAI to authenticate themselves as cybersecurity defenders. Customers in the highest tiers will get access to GPT‑5.4‑Cyber, a model purposely fine-tuned for additional cyber capabilities and with fewer capability restrictions. This is a version of GPT‑5.4 which lowers the refusal boundary for legitimate cybersecurity work and enables new capabilities for advanced defensive workflows, including binary reverse engineering capabilities that enable security professionals to analyze compiled software for malware potential, vulnerabilities and security robustness without needing access to its source code.

Because this model is more permissive, we are starting with a limited, iterative deployment to vetted security vendors, organizations, and researchers. Access to permissive and cyber-capable models may come with limitations, especially around no-visibility uses like Zero-Data Retention⁠(opens in a new window) (ZDR). This is particularly true for developers and organizations accessing our models through third-party platforms where OpenAI may have less direct visibility into the user, the environment, or the purpose of the request.

Gaining access to TAC is straightforward:

All customers approved through this process will gain access to versions of existing models with reduced friction around safeguards which might trigger on dual-use cyber activity, allowing them to continue to support security education, defensive programming, and responsible vulnerability research. Customers already in TAC willing to further authenticate themselves as legitimate cyber defenders can express interest⁠(opens in a new window) in additional tiers of access, including requesting access to GPT‑5.4‑Cyber.

Our cybersecurity defenses are the result of many months of iterative improvement. We believe the class of safeguards in use today sufficiently reduce cyber risk enough to support broad deployment of current models. We expect versions of these safeguards to be sufficient for upcoming more powerful models, while models explicitly trained and made more permissive for cybersecurity work require more restrictive deployments and appropriate controls.

Over the long term, to ensure the ongoing sufficiency of AI safety in cybersecurity, we also expect the need for more expansive defenses for future models, whose capabilities will rapidly exceed even the best purpose-built models of today.
